Emulators

We want to create an emulator of multiple classic computers using an object-oriented design.

To do this, we will first consider, for the sake of simplicity, that a "Computer" consists solely of a Processor and Memory. We will also need to store a name for each computer. These three values, in that order, must be specified in the (only) constructor of the Computer class. You must create getters and setters for each attribute, except the "name", which will only have a getter. A "toString" method must also be included, and it will return something like "ZxSpectrum, Z80 processor, 8 bits, 3.5 MHz, 16384 bytes of memory".

A "Processor" will contain a series of internal memory locations, called registers (for example, A or AX). Therefore, we want this class to contain a single constructor, which will receive three parameters: the first one will be the number of bits of the processor (for example, 8); the second one will be the processing speed, measured in Megahertz (for example, 3.58), and the third will be a string indicating the names of the registers separated by spaces (for example, "A B C D"). Additionally, there will be an AddCommand method, used to specify commands that this processor accepts. These commands will be specified as two parameters of AddCommand. The first parameter will indicate the numeric code of that command (for example, 121 in decimal or 0x79 in hexadecimal), and the second parameter will be the assembly language equivalent of that command (for example, "LD A, C"). In a later version of our emulator, all commands will be stored in a data structure, such as an array, but this first version doesn't need to worry about that yet; instead, the AddCommand method will be empty. There will also be a ShowCommands method, which, in a later version, will display the entire list of commands supported by the processor, but for now, it will only display "List of commands not yet available". The class Processor must also have "getters" for its number of bits and its processing speed. It will also have a "toString" method, which will return something like "8 bits, 3.5 MHz". We do not want to create a Processor as is, but to use its derived classes.

The class "Memory" will contain two attributes: the size and a byte array that will hold the actual data. There will be a constructor that receives the memory size in bytes (for example, 65536) as a parameter and creates a byte array of that size. A second constructor must also be defined, which will receive the memory size (for example, 65536) and the data bus size, measured in bits (for example, 8). However, this constructor will not be implemented yet, so it will delegate to the first constructor and ignore the data bus size (but it will contain a "TO DO" ​​comment inside, to remind our team that it is intended to be implemented later). The class will also have a method "get(address)" to retrieve the value stored at a specific memory location and "set(address, value)" to store a specific value at a memory location. It will also have a "getSize" method, which will return its size (in bytes).

Define also an interface called "IAddressable", which we will use to force several classes to have methods "get(address)" and "set(address, value)". So far, only the class "Memory" will define those methods.

Create a class "ProcessorZ80", which will allow us to create a "Zilog Z80" or derivative processor. This class will contain a single constructor to specify the speed in MHz (because the number of bits will be prefixed to 8 and the registers will be prefixed to "A B C D E F H L"). Its method ShowCommands will print the text "Z80: " followed by the message specified in the Processor class. Its "toString" method will return "Z80, " followed by the "toString" of a generic processor.

Create a Processor6502 class, will which allow to create a MOS 6502 or derivative processor. This class will contain a single constructor to specify the speed in MHz (because the number of bits will be preset to 8 and the registers to "A X Y"). Its "ShowCommands" method will print the text "6502: " followed by the warning provided in the "Processor" class. Its "toString" method will return "6502, " followed by the "toString" method of a generic processor.

Create a test program (class Emulators) with an array of computers. The first two computers will be preset: a ZX Spectrum, with a Z80 processor at 3.5 MHz and 16384 bytes of memory, and a Commodore VIC-20, with a 6502 processor at 1.1 MHz and 5120 bytes of memory. Next, the user should be able to choose which additional computers they want to add to the array, using a menu which will allow them to add a Z80-based computer (option 1) or a 6502-based computer (option 2), to view all the data entered so far (option 3) or to exit (option 0). Each time they choose to add a computer, they will be asked for its name, speed in MHz, and memory size.
